[speaking in Hindi]
…then you have to go to an airport
and a burger shop.
[loud laughter]
Marriages, for example,
two seasons in India, both harvesting.
Post harvesting, marriage starts.
Because that's the resource for them.
So people are just discovering something
and saying, "Hey, this looks cool.
I wanna buy this."
[Nikhil] What are you saying, in summary?
Like, if I am building a product
for today, what is that insight?
I have seen children of abundant families
doing phenomenally well,
and building new categories
and new products.
The first thing we were talking about
before you arrived is,
"Are the products from your e-commerce
company as late as you arrived?"
-Like…
-[laughter]
This is not correct.
We're kidding.
We won't put this part in the podcast.
-[Vidit sighs]
-[Sujeet] That's fair, he…
He's saying that he was late
because he was managing on time.
[Vidit laughs]
So, hi, guys.
Welcome, everyone, to Episode 3.
Uh, I think, to begin,
maybe we can all, like,
speak about what we do in one minute.
And since we all know
each other already, uh,
we can intersect and we can say
different things we know about each other.
The idea is just to get everybody
to know who we are.
So, let's start with Vidit.
Hey, I'm Vidit Aatrey. I run Meesho.
-Meesho is…
-[Nikhil] Not like that.
Not what you give
in college interviews and stuff.
What do you say, then?
[speaking in Hindi]
"I am Vidit. I was born here.
"I was this kind of a child."
Yes, that's exactly
what the college interview is.
[Nikhil] "You know, at this age…"
[Sujeet chuckles]
So I have to give something
different, right?
[Sujeet] Yeah, yeah.
[Nikhil] Basically, you have to say
the absolute blatant truth.
We were saying that, like,
anybody would find about your…
Like, who you are…
Something which is not on… Yeah.
It's a good point.
So, I… Hey, I'm Vidit Aatrey.
I grew up in Delhi,
in that part of Delhi that people
don't know as much, which is Rohini.
I was born in Meerut, so my entire family
comes from Meerut and Hapur.
So… I was the first engineer
in my entire family, right?
-So it's a…
-What was everyone else doing?
Farming. Both, my mom and dad's side,
like, everyone.
Like, all my cousins,
most of them still do farming.
And… So, it was
a very different upbringing.
When I was growing up,
my dad used to tell me,
"There are only two kinds of professions.
"One, someone who does a government job.
"Second, who sits in a parchun ki dukaan.
"So, if you don't want to sit
in a parchun ki dukaan, you better study."
-What is a parchun ki dukaan?
-[Vidit] It is a grocery store, basically.
"So, if you don't want to sit there,
"you better study
and become an IAS officer someday."
So, all my life, I was told this.
And I used to believe it
for a very long time.
And I grew up, went to IIT-Delhi,
all of that.
When I went there, I realized the world
is not bipolar, "only two professions",
and there's a lot more
other things you can do.
And that's when I changed.
Um, after college, went
to, um… went to ITC
in an operations heavy role.
Very different. And from Delhi to Chennai.
And I went into a factory where the…
where everyone in the factory
used to speak only one language,
which was Tamil.
And I used to…
I used to go everyday in the office,
there used to be a morning
stand-up meeting,
which was about an hour, in Tamil.
[Sujeet chuckles softly]
And I'm standing there…
Like, everyone knows English.
I'm saying, "Why don't we speak English?"
"Because we are in Chennai,
so we have to speak in Tamil."
So, I used to stand there
and have no idea what's happening.
But I was forced to, kind of,
pick up some bit.
I would say, like, the first two years
of my career, it was very interesting,
because I was put
into the most uncomfortable parts.
Like, you sitting in Delhi,
you can do all the nice stuff.
Like you can do good analysis
if you understand Excel,
but managing a lot of people,
going to a place where
you're uncomfortable about everything:
language, food.
Over time, figuring out
your way around this.
But I think it was…
it was pretty cool, if I look back.
At that point of time, I got connected
to a friend who was in Bangalore,
Bangalore was coming up,
like your Flipkarts
and your InMobis of the world.
So I moved here.
-And, eventually, in 2015…
-You guys are from the same college, no?
Yeah, yeah, same college,
but I think the…
-In which year did you pass out?
-2012.
Yeah, he is, like,
nine years junior to me.
Yeah. It's much, much later.
So, yeah. So I think then I come to…
came to Bangalore, and…
like, everyone else,
got bitten by the entrepreneurial bug
because there was so much to do.
Then, we started Meesho back in 2015.
Um, so, now, coming to, like,
what we do at Meesho
and why did we even pick
what we are doing…
So, we started in 2015,
and doing this because we realized
that e-commerce was coming up
and everyone was talking about,
"Hey, why…"
How all of this was moving online.
But e-commerce at that point of time
was mostly smartphones
and white goods selling online, right?
Like, which was not "India retail"
to some extent.
Small businesses were a very core part
of India retail,
but still primarily offline.
And 85% of India retail happens via
a lot of these long tail,
unbranded small businesses.
So we said, "We'll bring them online."
If someone asked me "how", I had no idea,
but we said we'll bring them online.
And that's when we started Meesho.
So, yeah, we'll complete eight years.
Been a very, very interesting journey.
Um, now we have close to
140 million consumers who buy from us
annually across all kinds of categories
from about a million small businesses.
-So… that's all.
-[Nikhil] Hmm.
Super.
So, uh, I think Mr. Kishore Biyani,
everybody knows.
Broadly, you're an icon of selling,
both online and offline.
And I think each one of us, growing up,
in one way or another,
has some way, in one way or another,
experienced one product
that you might have made or another.
So maybe, even though we have seen you,
we don't know so much about
your childhood, where you were born.
I've met your family,
I've come to your house.
I've met your daughters
and stuff like that.
But, uh, maybe you can
give us a minute or two?
Yeah. So, I'm Kishore Biyani.
I've formed a lot of consumer businesses,
called our group the Future Group.
Uh… [clears throat] I was born in Bombay.
Born and brought up in Bombay.
Studied commerce…
I was interested in marketing.
So, used to follow most of the advertising
that used to happen then.
And then, built my own brand of trousers
to start with.
Started with the fabric business…
How did you first
think of starting a trouser brand?
I think that was way back, and…
[Sujeet] Which year?
[Kishore] I would say…
'91 or something?
I was supplying garments…
I was supplying fabric
to the garment industry.
At that time, the brands were
Charagh Din, Double Bull.
They were very different brands then.
-[Nikhil] What year was this?
-This must be '87.
And people were just moving into,
from tailor-made to ready-made.
-[Nikhil] Vidit was not even born.
-[Vidit] Yeah.
[laughter]
I feel odd one out here
in terms of seniority.
-[Sujeet chuckling]
-He… he's half way there.
I'm a little bit lower, he's the youngest.
It was a different world, I was born
to a very conservative family.
We come from Rajasthan.
Family was very religious, pious,
I was an atheist…
Always, what do you call? I was known
as the black sheep of the family.
And contrarian thoughts
on everything in life.
And, so… I thought
I'll not join the family business,
we had a small wholesale
fabric trading business that time.
So when I joined… When I just graduated,
I did some course in marketing,
I did my…
I did my CA entrance.
I never… I think,
in five years of college,
I went to attend a class only once.
One class attended in five years.
Do you think there is some kind of
a correlation between rebellious kids
or kids who have grown up
with more insecurity than usual
to how well they do later in life?
Do you think more rebellious, insecure
end up doing better?
I believe that, today,
my children are born in abundance
and to more democratic parents.
I was not born to democratic parents,
and we were born in the shortage era.
So, I think shortages
or less availability
does definitely make you work harder,
and make you expand
your mind and thoughts.
So, I think abundance
can create something else,
but what we got was not abundance
in any which way.
He also doesn't come from abundance,
in a way, no?
I don't. And, by the way, to some extent,
I agree with what you were just asking.
I believe…
Like I come from a family
where I would say
even when I was growing up,
I was a very compliant child.
So, whatever my parents tell me, I do it.
Until I come to college, and suddenly
I have an independent bent of mind.
Now I question everything.
So, until then, I would say, like,
my parents would make me do that pooja
every day.
And I am an atheist since college.
Right? So everything changed.
Because, until then,
right, like, I only saw
a very small part of the world,
and I thought this is right and wrong,
and everything is very black and white.
And as you get exposed
to more and more stuff,
then some people are okay,
and you can say rebellious,
I call it independent.
But I feel it happens,
and it's definitely one input
to doing something crazy, right?
Because if you do something
which is by the book,
it's very hard for you to challenge
what has been happening for years.
But only thing I observed that is common.
Like, he passed out in 2012,
and you are somewhere in '80.
But still, the feeling
of, like, I have grown
in such a constrained, disciplined family…
Because how I see,
and might be that's not the truth,
but children, these days,
we say, "No, they have a lot."
Might be that you have the same feeling,
"Hey, a 2012 kid has a lot of access
"to information, infrastructure,
better college, better education."
But the feeling is similar.
And it doesn't matter…
Like, my grandfather was always saying
that when I was studying,
I was crossing river,
walking this much kilometers,
and things like that.
And when we were studying,
he was saying, "You guys have everything."
And we believe,
"No, no, this is also tough."
[chuckles] So I think that feeling
is very common.
-That is my…
-Do you think that is true?
Like, say, my parents…
my mom was a music teacher,
and my dad was a bank employee.
But do you think people who grew up
in middle-class upbringing,
like myself, or under,
feel more insecure about things
like money,
things like having the freedom
that can be associated with money,
and hence they over-compensate
when they grow older?
I think money matters a bit lesser here.
Like I…
It's obviously when I was growing up,
coming from a lower-middle class family,
like, if… It's a very top-of-mind
thing to solve.
But I don't think that leads to it.
Like, very hard for me to attribute to it.
-[Nikhil] Right.
-If we go by data, it's very hard.
Might be we can share our perspective,
from the rebellious point-of-view,
but I think that's not true.
I think it was very regimental in nature
when you're middle-class,
"Hey, you have to study.
There is only one way.
"You have to get a… Like,
get into some job.
"Nice job, otherwise your marriage
will not happen."
Things like that. I think those
are the main issues.
Might be for us, it was never that issue,
and so that's why you can…
But, by data, I'll tell you we all invest
in start-ups, right?
Like, each one of us.
Uh, I didn't realize this for a long time,
but very organically you…
at least we formed a filter.
By "we," I mean different funds
I'm a part of,
that if somebody was a very entitled guy,
if somebody was the son
or a daughter of a very rich man,
you would have this thing
in your subconscious
which would make you wary of investing
in that start-up.
-Same. I've had the same thing.
-It's not true, in a way.
I believe it's nature of a…
But he can excel in something else
which nobody else can do.
Some categories,
they can excel much, much better.
So I… We have dwelt a lot
into understanding this,
but I think
abundance creates something else
and shortages create something else.
But rebelliousness definitely
creates something.
Without being a rebel, you can't…
Because as a rebellion,
you like to destroy something
and create something.
Now I got into… I created…
I went into business, created a fabric
which became quite popular,
it was called stonewash at that time.
Then, denim as a fabric came in.
How did you create this fabric?
I think… I think there was a fashion
which was going along.
And I was… I did some course in weaving,
and I was very interested
in textile fabric as such.
So…
How old were you
when you were doing this course?
[Kishore] Twenty-one, twenty-two?
Was it a thing back then,
to do a course in weaving
and try to make a fabric?
I was trying to do everything.
I was not a great student
or had inclination toward studies.
My parents never knew
whether I passed or failed also.
So… So we were a joint family.
We were 13 of us in our age group.
My father had six brothers.
And if we all came and one of them
didn't sleep also, nobody would notice.
We lived very, very differently then.
I think, uh…
So, the idea was to create something.
And it started with creating that fabric,
supplying to the garment industry,
building denim, then building
our own brand.
And then it kept on going on and on.
So, in terms of creation…
it became like building brands,
building retail formats,
then getting into NBFC, logistic business,
insurance.
So, multiple things.
And then, investing
into a lot of entrepreneurs.
Right. When was that moment
when you really scaled?
Like, when you guys became really big?
'Cause I remember growing up,
like, your brands were everywhere.
Everyone of us knew you,
you were on the cover of magazines…
Like, you were talking
about that book, no?
There was one book,
it was kind of like the Bible that time.
-To study the retail…
-I think, if you look at…
If I look back,
because I am in a different state of mind
or in terms of business at the moment,
so I have done…
It might appear that I have done
what people do in three generations.
I created and I destroyed everything.
So, creation and destruction,
and maybe if there is a chance
to create something more.
But… but it was a process
which was fantastic.
First was destroying your old thoughts,
destroying your parents' thoughts,
creating something out of that.
And then, destroying your thoughts again
and again.
Because we went into luxury,
and we went into masses.
We went to the lowest end
of the population
with a store format called Aadhaar,
which was below 50,000 population.
And we dealt with the highest end
by creating something called Foodhall.
And in terms of departmental stores,
Central to Brand Factory.
So, we catered to a lot of audiences,
and there were a lot of learnings from…
Like, Hindustan Lever
at that point of time,
how do you create brands
at every segment of the population?
So, I think branding was something
which interested us.
Yeah, so we laddered many brands
in the retail formats.
And, so, it was a journey, I would say.
For 30 years, we compounded at 30%.
For 30 years, we did grow every year.
And, uh, so…
But now it's a different journey.
So, another experience,
I have become more philosophical
than doing…
Right. It's an incredible journey.
And out of all the things
you could have done, like, why…
Big Bazaar and Future Group?
Like, why… How did you arrive at,
"This is the thing, this is my calling"?
Was it just the weaving thing
which led to this?
Uh, before creating Big Bazaar,
I had a format in mind
that we'll create a marketplace
for brands.
So, Central was originally conceptualized
much before Big Bazaar for me.
But then, Big Bazaar came about…
I started visiting the bazaars
and the haats
which used to happen in small towns.
So, people used to take the markets.
So, we thought,
"Why can't we create markets
"with that hustle and bustle in a city?"
I had not seen Walmart then.
I had not seen any other retail format.
So, we thought, "Let's try this."
And so, then, the idea was to build scale.
So we opened three stores in 22 days
so that we could build some volumes
and some scale.
So it was a market, hustle-bustle,
we thought that should be
a butt-brush effect.
People should meet each other,
people should… There should be a crowd.
Because crowd can only get crowd.
So, it was different experience then.
But we must say that, sir,
in this country,
somebody who has thought of organizing
retail and started at that scale,
and people started believing
because your format started working.
I think several format will come,
get destroyed, will come again,
futuristic and all,
but you have given
that genesis that retail can be organized.
[Nikhil] Like, the kids say today, like,
he's like the OG of commerce.
-I call him Father of Organizing Retail.
-[Nikhil] Original gangster. [chuckles]
-[Vidit] Yeah, yeah. 100%.
-I think…
We have learned so much,
directly, indirectly.
[speaking in Hindi]
Somebody becomes a catalyst to do that.
So I think we got a…
You have.
You have done that for retail, for sure.
We got that opportunity to do it.
And I think once you start looking at it
from a consumer lens,
you can create something much, much more.
Because you are looking at the consumer
and creating something,
not looking at yourself
and creating something.
So, we created
that consumer understanding,
trying to… We…
As a group, we have an organization
which is called Futurebrands
wherein we, from the last 15 years,
every six months, we do a Bharat Darshan.
And we record every societal change
happening in the country.
We record every lyrics written
in the country,
anything which becomes popular,
we make it a point…
So, like, when we used to get huge crowds
in Big Bazaar stores,
we went to Tirupati temple
to understand how to manage crowds.
[rambunctious laughter]
So, India is a fascinating country,
in a way.
-"Release this box."
-And what did you learn from Tirupati?
Tirupati, unbelievable management.
Crazy. How to manage crowds was something…
How do you create that…
[speaks in Hindi]
…make people stand in the queue,
give them water, give them everything,
make them patient.
And you learn from everywhere.
Everywhere.
India has all the experiences
which you can experience and learn from.
-[Vidit] Wow!
-Mm.
Turning Tirupati to retail, huh?
That should have been
the title of the book.
My first retail store experience
where we got inspired
was Saravana stores in Chennai.
Where they sell idli and all?
Everything they used sell
in one single place.
-Saravana Bhavan, right?
-Saravana Stores.
[Sujeet] Stores, stores.
They used to sell
utensils the most, fabric…
-Oh, I was thinking of Saravana Bhavan…
-Saravana Bhavan is… that is the food…
That's a food thing,
but the store is huge.
Huge.
-Appliances, everything they sell.
-[Kishore] Yeah, everything.
So, Big Bazaar was, in fact,
conceptualized
from inspiration of Saravana,
more than anything else.
[speaking in Hindi]
Yeah, like everybody here.
So, I have to preface this for context.
Me and Sujeet hang out a lot, all right?
Like, we were together yesterday,
we travel together.
Uh, if he was not married…
[coy laughter]
…people would have the wrong idea
but we end up spending…
I think we travel at least once
in two-three months somewhere together?
-Yes, I think last one year, yeah.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
[Kishore] Great.
So I know him very well.
Yeah, but, let me say where I come from.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
-Like Vidit was saying,
"I am from Meerut."
So I come from a place called
Bhabua in Bihar.
It's a very small town.
I have grown up there,
studied there till 12th in Hindi medium,
from Bihar Board.
[Sujeet snickers]
And I don't know how I have gone to IIT.
Because I came to know about IIT only in…
People call it "12th",
we call it "intermediate".
Yeah.
So, it was a part of college at that time.
When after 10th, you go to college,
and it's not 10+2,
it's Intermediate, then BA/BSc, whatever.
So I have, from Hindi medium,
converted to English, just for exam.
Uh, somehow landed in IIT-Delhi.
I never planned to go to IIT-Delhi,
I wanted to be in IT-BHU.
[speaking in Hindi]
[laughing]
Something happened. Uh…
[speaking in Hindi]
I landed in Delhi. Uh…
And that was my first big city,
and I was exposed to, like…
[speaking in Hindi]
-[chuckles] So…
-[Nikhil] What was it? Please repeat it.
[speaking in Hindi]
In Hindi, it's "uch vidyalaya".
Uh, so… landed in IIT.
[chuckles]
[Vidit] The same thing
happened to me also.
There were so many things I never saw.
Like, I had a smaller school, I would say,
until 12th, and when I came…
I have no idea, right?
You have all kinds of sports,
you have all kinds of extra curriculars
to do.
So, you get exposed to this right
after college… uh, right after school,
people go crazy. So I can totally connect
with this feeling.
In India, people play cricket, badminton…
[speaking in Hindi]
-[all laugh]
-And you will not believe,
even billiards and all,
I was spending so much of time,
by second or third year,
I was in the team.
[chuckles] So I was playing billiards,
pool, like I said…
-[Nikhil] Still got good marks in IIT?
-No.
[all laugh loudly]
[speaking in Hindi]
But at that time, Y2K,
when we were passing in 2003,
all of 2001, 2002,
the whole job scenario was so bad…
[speaking in Hindi]
Otherwise, people go out,
all the MNCs come to campus,
they take those first, like,
electricals, computer,
all these, and then rank-wise.
And even if you are last from the bottom,
you'll get some job.
And it was a kind of…
And then I had, somewhere I thought…
[speaking in Hindi]
And I remember that…
…you have to take some optional subject.
Like history, public ad, geography,
you have to study all that
general knowledge.
And then you have to do a core subject
like physics, math,
as a science boy, you can choose one.
Otherwise, you can choose any subject.
[speaking in Hindi]
Then I spent almost six months there…
Somehow I decided to join some small firm…
where I can learn.
Some of my friends
connected me to some person.
He had agreed to take me as a co-founder,
at that time, KPO.
In 2000, I'm talking about 2004, 2005.
So, we have started a KPO.
Taking project, delivering the project,
we were like 25-26 people.
And doing that for almost, like…
And in 2008, recession came,
no project, no money.
[Sujeet chuckling]
And Sachin, in 2007…
He was one year my junior in IIT,
we were in the same hostel.
[speaking in Hindi]
[Sujeet and Vidit laugh]
I was in love with Delhi.
I was settled there. Um…
Then he… I think he got married early,
in 2008, he called me for his marriage.
And then… We decided to close KPO…
[in Hindi] as we had no project, no money.
His wife is still your dentist, no?
Yes.
So, uh…
[speaking in Hindi]
Then I came in 2008. Um…
I was not able to imagine that…
Because he was…
Because Binny was two years junior to me.
[in Hindi] I said,
"I'll come and check it out
"and then let you know
if I want to go ahead with it or not."
Because all the suppliers of books
at that time were in Delhi.
And their presence in Delhi was not there.
I said, "All right." I somehow, I get us…
I like the… I like the business model.
And then decided to again…
Again, went back to Delhi
because I have to… So I was taking care
of all the business, supply, operation.
Then I went back to Delhi,
solving those problems…
[speaking in Hindi]
[in Hindi] "What are you doing here?
Such things don't work out.
"Nobody buys books online in India."
[in English] Well, whatever.
I think, at that time,
we were inspired by your journey.
That's where I was saying
we were studying your books also.
[speaking in Hindi]
[Sujeet snickers]
And then I finished that book.
And Flipkart started in 2008.
Uh, so it started in October, 2007.
Uh, I joined in 2008. But I was like…
[speaking in Hindi]
…something. When I went there,
it was six or seven…
We received orders for seven, eight books.
So, yeah, journey has a start…
By the way, when I had joined,
it was not even a company,
it was a proprietorship.
So, Sachin's father was a trader
in Punjab-Chandigarh.
So, he had some balance sheet where…
That's why it was a proprietorship.
So, 2009, it got registered.
The name Flipkart got registered in 2009.
But it started in October, 2007.
I came onboard in 2008.
So we started our journey.
I was taking care of all the supply chain
operation, category,
Uh, first four years,
I was managing all these things.
And then, after that,
mostly focusing on building
supply chain capabilities, operation.
So we started Ekart
within Flipkart in 2010.
Uh, yeah. We have built that.
That journey was amazing.
So from zero to '15. So I left in 2016.
Started Udaan with Vaibhav and Amod.
Again, Vaibhav and Amod were…
I met Vaibhav in Flipkart,
he was CTO of Flipkart.
And Amod, uh…
Amod was the CTO, and Vaibhav
I know, he was my senior in IIT-Delhi.
So we're good friends.
But he was also working in Flipkart.
[speaking in Hindi]
-I'm saying because I have…
-From IIT-Delhi, don't know about others!
[Vidit] By the way, the same hostel.
All of them are the same hostel also,
by the way. Jwala, right?
-Vaibhav, Jwala. Sachin, Jwala.
-All Sachins are from Jwala.
[speaking in Hindi]
[Vidit] I have no idea.
I am connecting the dots now…
Is it because of the network of alumni
that it helps IIT…
But IIT-Delhi has that thing.
[speaking in Hindi]
But in my case, all of my angel
was done by a lot of IIT-Delhi…
[in Hindi] "What is funding?"
[speaking in Hindi]
We got some exit by that time.
How many companies have you invested in?
[Sujeet] Around 100-150.
Out of the 150, how many have become big?
-Like serious scale?
-Unacademy.
That…. Even this, uh…
Grofers, now it's Blinkit.
[Vidit] Hmm.
Of late, he keeps talking about coffee.
Yeah, I have scaled this
coffee model also.
-[Vidit] Third Wave.
-[Nikhil] Third Wave.
Investing in something else, coffee?
I have now… Because I believe
there are too much
On one sector, tech, tech, tech…
So, I found something.
In India, food will also scale, QSR.
So, from the last one and a half year
I am experimenting, like Third Wave.
So when I came there, they were nothing.
Uh, in last one and a half year,
we have scaled.
I think, somewhere, now they are valued
at around $200 million,
something like that.
Uh, and it's good.
Because they are a profitable business,
that's what I am saying.
It's good to see that some business
is profitable,
and they are making money.
Uh, then I have a view in India
beyond tier-2, tier-3 city, um…
like Domino's kind of business
can be built,
McD also can be built,
but I found some great entrepreneurs
who were already building,
I am backing them.
And I believe that they will open
2,000-3,000 stores in this country.
Uh, yeah, so I am experimenting on that.
Same view I have of South Indian food
because of…
If you'll see Rameshwaram,
I'll give an example…
[Kishore] I've been there, yeah.
-So, they cut 7,500 bills a day.
-[Kishore] Crazy.
And their one store does five…
So, this is like a 10x10 kind of…
10x15 kind of store…
Store in a hole.
-…do like 4.5 crores a month.
-[Vidit] A month?
Almost 50 crore, one store, of 10x15.
And with decent margins and all?
Decent margin. I'm just saying,
it is a 70% gross margin.
[Nikhil] Hmm.
They must be doing EBIDTA on monthly level
generating around 30%.
-[Vidit] Hmm.
-Minimum.
So Vidit's wife is, again,
a very successful entrepreneur.
She has this brand of clothing
called myblissclub.
-BlissClub, yeah.
-You wanna say something?
Yeah. So, basically,
she started this business
about two and half, three years ago.
And, like, it's a very mission-driven
business.
What she's trying to solve is
she's fundamentally building
the first women-focused
fitness brand, right?
Because in India, most fitness brands
have always been associated with men.
Right? Like no one's solved
women-focused problems.
So, she started this
two and half, three years ago.
And she wants to kind of build
"a culture of movement",
in her own words, right?
So she wants people to move a lot more.
Fitness is not just about having,
like, some crazy six-pack abs.
But like everyone, whatever you do,
every single day,
even if you walk 100 metres,
you're moving.
And how can you make that
journey more fulfilling?
So she started this journey
two and a half, three years ago,
and it's been doing pretty well.
I see her everyday
because we live in…
Religiously, she comes everyday.
-Yeah. [chuckling] Yes.
-In the gym?
BlissClub is positioned
body-positive brand?
Yeah, I think it's…
One of the principles is that.
Like, "Hey, how do you
go against body-shaming
"which happens, again, a lot in India?"
We had a brand, we built a brand
called aLL. A Little Larger.
-Hmm.
-That became very big.
Actually, it was the most
profitable business we ever created.
But majorly, we were in wovens,
not in knits as much.
So, before I met Minu,
like one and a half, two years ago,
me and Vidit had gone for a conference.
So I had never met his wife,
and, uh…
We had one week to kill,
and we used to spend a lot of time
having breakfast, lunch, dinner, everyday.
And he would describe Minu to me, uh…
The thing about Vidit, right,
he's very certain about
what he wants in life.
And there is a weird kind of contentment…
I'm talking not professionally,
but personally,
which makes him, I think,
more complete as an emotional human being,
which is fairly unique.
'Cause many people I know,
including myself,
we live through a lot more ambiguity
when it comes to forming our notions
about these subjects
where you are so certain
about what you believe and what you want.
And so early in life.
That's something gifted.
And you're the youngest amongst all of us.
[speaking in Hindi]
[Vidit] Very good,
good for a podcast like this.
[Kishore in Hindi] He's from Bihar, right?
Yes, anything to anyone.
He'll say anything.
[speaking in Hindi]
…where we both won't get into trouble.
-It's not that he will get into trouble…
-[Vidit] But I want…
[speaking in Hindi]
We don't want a safe story,
we want an interesting story.
We'll talk about a friend
of ours, okay, first.
…like, last month?
-February, yeah.
-February, we went to Riyadh.
We were there for one entire week.
And one very nice gentleman invited us
to his house for dinner and his family.
His name was H-A…
-Haani Mohammad.
H-A-A-N-I.
…uh, you say the next part.
[chuckling] So…
Again, Marwadi,
and if you've noticed the people of Mumbai
have an accent while speaking in Hindi?
So then, Haani Mohammad,
everybody is calling him Haani,
he started calling him "Honey". [laughs]
[Vidit] That friend of yours?
But it was so funny when he, like,
"Hi, Honey." "Bye, Honey."
"Good night, Honey."
I was like, "His name is 'Haani.'"
"Honey." [laughter]
But Riyadh was such a fun experience.
[speaking in Hindi]
"Great investing opportunities,
you guys should go check it out."
So we made a group of friends,
and we went to Riyadh for a week.
And we met
people in different departments,
in business, in government, all of that.
The scale of the projects
they are doing is madness.
…called Roshn.
You know how many villas they're building?
-Forty-five thousand.
-Forty-thousand? In one project?
[Nikhil] In one project.
They're spending $3 trillion on that NEOM.
[Vidit] That I saw. It's like some city?
A very different city.
[Sujeet] It's a line city.
They call it Line.
So, the dimension is
200 metres by 150 metres.
[speaking in Hindi]
You all visit abroad, we all have done it.
And then you want to do something
like that India…
So that itself, sometimes…
Is it a great thing or…
I think the dynamics and the demographics
of the two countries are so different.
I think Saudi Arabia
has less than 10% of our population.
-Not even 10%, 36 million.
-Yeah, 5%.
-Like 3%.
-[Sujeet] Yeah.
Less than 3%, 2%.
-[Nikhil] We can't plan like they do.
-We can't plan, but…
-I'm saying the imagination goes wild.
-[Nikhil] Correct.
I think for that point to arrive,
we need to have kinda like reached
a certain GDP per capita. I think…
You know, when we started going abroad…
[speaking in Hindi]
…we would have met every entrepreneur
who has created something in the world.
…I think we start thinking about…
Then we start making mistakes.
I was coming to that point.
I agree with you.
Have you seen a lot of examples like this?
Where people get inspired too much
and say,
"If it works in US,
it'll work in India as well."
[speaking in Hindi]
-Maybe with a 15 year lag.
-Well, something does happen.
Because human beings are human beings.
Like, I'm talking about e-commerce
at large. I'm talking about…
But e-commerce also, in India,
since the subject is getting discussed…
[speaking in Hindi]
-Correct. Agree.
-[speaking in Hindi]
-Yeah, but we omit…
-Localization has to happen. I agree.
Like, sometimes, people try to copy-paste
with the exact T
which I believe does not work.
Like, if you want to say
we are in broking,
asset management, and stuff like that,
there have been examples very similar
in the US for a long time.
You talk about Ola,
Uber has been there for a long time.
-If you talk about AirBnB…
-But it's a space.
It's a financial service,
the other one is mobility,
so they are… they are natural things.
What is that new thing you can do in India
with an Indian reference point
is something which should be
more interesting in India.
Do you think it's not about how you tweak
what has worked elsewhere
but create something,
is that what you're saying?
You're asking for Instagram of India,
Google of India, something like that?
[speaking in Hindi]
…India can only prosper
if we are able to create value addition
in the economy.
Of course.
By just selling commodities
without value addition…
[speaking in Hindi]
[Sujeet] Yeah. I believe that.
Which is manufacturing, processing…
[speaking in Hindi]
[continues in Hindi]
which have scaled,
let's say to about 1,000 crores in sales,
what are the first five brands
that come to your mind,
and why do you think
there are so few brands?
[speaking in Hindi]
We were able to build
four-five 1,000 crore brands.
Now you look at boAt in personal wear.
I am looking at…
[speaking in Hindi]
Even Mamaearth has scaled
to a certain level.
Not 1,000 crores,
but they are getting there.
So, new-age brands are happening,
but old-age brands, Lever, Nestle,
they're all…
they have all built brands, yeah?
-Look at the brand Maggi has built, no?
-[Sujeet] Yeah, yeah.
It's crazy, one single category,
one single product…
-A billion dollar brand…
-But they're all…
The ones which have really scaled
have been the foreign brands
which have come into India.
I think Marico has done well, ITC,
I would rate it as an Indian company,
they are building a lot of brands.
Britannia, in a way, they are
making a lot of Indian brands.
[speaking in Hindi]
Amul. Amul I think is the biggest brand
India has created ever.
I think for this conversation,
let's not focus or fixate
upon e-commerce alone,
but commerce at large, because we have…
But digital commerce
is a very interesting subject.
And ultimately, digital….
To buy anything,
it'll be a digital use in…
Whether it will influence you,
whether you have seen the brand digitally.
-So, digital is a part of your life now.
-[Sujeet] That's true.
[speaks in Hindi]
You think that's the future
and physical is gonna die?
-It's not about physical or digital.
-[Sujeet] I think digital…
[speaking in Hindi]
Yes, after seeing a photo on Instagram,
you decide what to buy
in that local market.
It is a part of your life now.
I don't see them as two separate things.
Hmm. So you think…
in the future,
for these consumer-facing brands,
let's say for example…
…the four or five brands
that you were talking about…
What is the split right now of people
buying them online
and what is the split offline?
Firstly, I am not building,
my daughters are doing it.
I am maybe a mentor, they are…
Because I don't belong to that generation
who think digitally.
The last thing we did digitally
was to build a whole thing around data.
[speaks in Hindi]
We did Big Bazaar to our delivery,
which became very successful,
we got a break.
We started FutureBazaar.com
when Flipkart had… along the same time.
[Sujeet] I think a little bit delayed,
but, yeah, around the same. 2008.
Around the same time, 2008-09. Yeah.
So we attempted digital…
Being physical, attempting digital
was the biggest mistake,
because you can't think …
People who are born digital think digital.
We were born physical and thinking digital
was adding one more layer.
That doesn't work.
[Nikhil] And what do you think the recipe
is now? What could work?
You have to think digital now.
But also have a physical presence?
Physical… You sell through every medium.
But you have to think digital.
Everything… When we used
to build brands earlier,
it was newspaper advertising,
television advertising…
[speaking in Hindi]
Now you can't build a brand
on newspaper advertising
or television advertising.
Or outdoor.
Yes, digital marketing, targeting digital…
So you have to think digital,
the consumers are different…
[speaking in Hindi]
Even before we talk about e-commerce
or digitally buying something…
why do you think,
from a very psychological standpoint,
why do you think somebody buys a product?
What in their psyche instigates them
to buy a certain product?
Why do some products do better
than other products?
And do you think…
See, I'm not talking about
the essentials that we all need,
but I'm talking about shopping,
shopping in the sense of the word
that we know it today…
Do you think the power dynamic in a way
shifts from
the seller of the product to the buy…
from the seller…
from the buyer to the seller
each time somebody buys a product?
Like why does somebody buy a product,
and why does a product work?
So, I'll tell you at least
what we see now, right?
Like, now, because of social,
there's massive FOMO in the world.
Right? So there's…
People call it inspiration,
but a lot of this is FOMO.
Right? Like, no one wants to be left out.
We see lots and lots of shopping
gets inspired by social media.
Right? Like, by Instagram,
by this and that.
One of the very common products
that people use on the Meesho app,
is people take photograph, and they search
that same photograph and buy.
And most of those photographs
come from Instagram.
So how big is social media
as an influencer
part of Meesho's overall sales?
I would say it's very hard to attribute,
because in many cases people come and…
Both direct and indirect?
It's a lot. Even the way we design,
what kind of trends are coming up,
what kind of things you see,
everything is driven a lot by what data
we see on social. It's a big part.
So, I'm saying
direct attribution we can see
when people are really searching
that image, and it's an Instagram image.
So, that we know, and that's a large part.
But even otherwise, we see everyone
deciding what to buy and what not to buy
driven a lot from social media.
So you're saying there is this
one central body, in a way,
of influential people
who decides what is cool,
and then everybody decides
they need that product in their life?
To some extent, yes. Right?
Like, that's happening.
Now people are seeing
a lot of celebrities,
now they are also seeing
these influencers come up.
And how high does that chain go?
Let's say we look at an influencer,
who does the influencer look at?
Who, in turn, does that person look at?
Is it a corporation
which is setting trends that are cool,
or is it organically evolving from people?
So, at least from what we see now,
it may have started
with being very concentrated,
but now, even, like I see,
like BlissClub starting, right?
Like, they leverage influencers
quite a lot.
That entire brand was, by the way,
built on Instagram.
Like, everything was built on Instagram.
And they found people.
So, now, there are influencers
that people can relate with.
"Hey, this influencer looks like me,
"wears the kinds of things I like,
and I follow that person."
And some of the influencers,
very original kind of products
they choose,
and they recommend, and so on.
So it's not very concentrated that,
"Hey, this person looks at this,
and that person looks at this."
I feel now it's very decentralized
to some extent,
and everyone knows what kind of person
feels like a body double to me, right?
Like, "Hey, this person
has the same beliefs,
"same likings, same kind of body,
"and I like this person.
I wanna buy what they look good in."
So I feel that's happening…
Do you think at the very core
of this distinction,
you're saying people are mandating,
or people are governing what becomes cool,
and it's not the brands or corporations?
Correct.
People are leading
and brands are following?
To some extent, now I see this
to be very strong.
And I feel this is only getting
bigger and bigger.
No, but there is a reason for it.
Like he was saying,
social media, especially
these video platforms,
let's say TikTok, Josh, whatever.
Instagram, Facebook, there are
so many distributions, big platforms
where more than hundreds
of millions of users…
[speaking in Hindi]
And they like those videos.
It's very hard for us to relate
to why these guys are watching so much.
And ultimately, some style, some product,
something, they pick.
And they want to look like it
because they spent so much of time.
So I think, like he was saying that
social, I think it is becoming mainstream.
I was just telling you,
when we were solving this predictability,
"Hey, the goods will be delivered
within one day, two days or one week,"
depending on the location and all,
I think this generation,
for them, it's a given.
They are not thinking about, "Hey, how…"
I was talking about
payment gateway integration…
[speaking in Hindi]
Uh, I think people now want to look good,
want to look different.
If you are asking who are the influencers?
If, in their society, they know some guys
who have 1,000 followers,
10,000 followers,
and they are getting inspired, thinking,
"I can become an influencer."
They are endorsing the brand.
Local brands, chips, some shop, something.
And they are innovative.
Because they want to look different
in every video
because they are creating reels also.
So what do they do? They go to malls,
go to changing rooms,
just change and take one video…
Because they cannot spend that much money.
See, I think now they endorse
in a different way.
So, is that the future
instead of marketing on newspaper, TV…
I think, the way we look at it,
people being a part of the old economy,
we believe that whenever a dominant media
or communication method changes,
everything changes around it.
So when there was a newspaper,
then the radio, then the television…
Television commoditized, built brands.
Now that's social media
and social interaction.
I think mobile phone
makes you very individualistic.
Because now at every home,
everybody has a different breakfast,
everybody has a different meal.
Earlier, the family used to sit together
and had one kind of meal.
Things have changed,
and we have become very individualistic
because everybody has a personal phone.
So, things are changing around it.
So, every person has personal preferences
of an influencer.
You need so many people
now to get influenced.
Somebody will get influenced by something,
somebody will get influenced by something.
Earlier, it was mass advertising.
I remember we made a movie,
and there was a particular dress
which was made by Biba,
and they still sell that dress
after 14 years or 15 years.
And that… Virtually, that dress made Biba
as a brand also to a great extent.
Earlier, there were other influences,
but it was commoditized
to a great, great extent.
But today, things are different.
It's getting individualistic. More…
And then, you have to find
that kind of users together,
and make them into a group.
So, for the future of building a product,
for the new consumer brands
that are coming up today,
is the go-to strategy just that?
Paying influencers
to promote your product?
No, no, I think it's a…
For brands, I think now,
it's a very core part.
Like, if you don't align
with the influencers…
Like, say the brand
could also have a message.
Like I could be saying,
"My brand is sustainable."
"My brand is XYZ."
"My brand does a certain kind of fashion."
Does the brand
try to build their distinction
through that brand message,
or is the lower hanging fruit
going to the influencers who have
the widest reach and paying them money
to adopt the brand in a way?
It's happening a lot.
And, by the way, it's just not about
finding the biggest influencer.
As I was saying, now influencers stand
for different things.
So, you have to find someone
who is very close to the philosophy
that the brand wants to build.
So, an influencer is an intermediary
between a brand and the customer?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. By the way,
people have become very conscious.
They look at everything.
"Hey, who have you picked?
"What does this person believe in?
"You say sustainable, I see this person
using a plastic water bottle."
"I don't believe this person
is sustainable."
My point is that everything,
every detail somehow matters now.
-[Nikhil] Right.
-Because people spend so much time.
So, it's just not… You can't go…
And that's why influencers work.
And very, very small influencers
are very effective,
because it's just not going to
the celebrity with millions of followers.
You have to find someone who connects
with the principle of the brand.
[Sujeet] If you'll see, I think…
Earlier, like he was saying,
the unidimensional controlled channel.
Let's say newspapers, TV,
and we were controlled.
Because of the social media revolution,
multiple access innovations are happening,
multiple access.
And it's very hard to pick one trend.
Some trends are working
in tier 1, some tier 2,
some in the high-paying capacity,
some Gen Z, some, uh-uh-uh, millennials.
And it's very hard to pick trends.
But if you'll see,
the platforms which are responsible
for social media,
let's say Instagram or Facebook…
Now they are creating a fund.
So, to engage these influencers…
Because if commercially they will not…
Commercially, if they will not be engaged,
it's very hard for them
to come again and innovate.
So, now they are creating a fund for it.
And, somehow,
they are creating an economics…
Currently, those are broken.
Because the people who are finding
those number of influencers,
they are creating that infrastructure,
but currently, it's broken.
So, big innovations are happening,
how to create that fund
so that all these influencers
at multiple access
keep engaging with the platform.
So, I think… And I see retail
as becoming a by-product of that.
And do you think celebrities…
Like, I'm talking about
old-school celebrities,
Bollywood, cricketers…
do you think that connection
has somewhere gotten lost
because people have assumed
in their minds
that they are for sale, in a way,
and rarely ever do they believe
in the product they are selling,
and will the trend in the future be
that brands do not go
to Bollywood or cricket, but they go
to more micro-influencers, in a way,
who are more authentic?
I think…
it is happening slightly,
but I think that's still
not the prominent reason.
Like, the reason people go
to influencers…
Because earlier, by the way,
it was binary.
Either you have a big celebrity
or you don't.
[Nikhil] Right.
And until you become large enough
to afford a celebrity, you can't do it.
Now, people can start on day one.
You could be a very small one,
you find a small influencer
who connects with your philosophy,
and people keep graduating.
There are still very few influencers
who have the same following
as celebrities,
so what you're saying
still hasn't happened.
But I believe that'll happen soon.
In the next few years,
some large celebrities
will have the same following as…
Er, some large influencers
with the same following as celebrities.
You guys do a lot of marketing.
We do. And we are seeing, by the way…
[Nikhil] What is your marketing budget
per year?
How much did you spend last year?
It's a large amount,
I won't mention the number here.
-But I'm saying it does not matter.
-I want you to say it.
No, but I won't mention still.
[chuckles coyly]
But let's say Meesho spends something like
2,000 crores a year to market…
What I'm wondering is:
How do you decide the allocation
of that money?
What have you learnt? Say, for example,
last year, you sponsored IPL,
and this and that, and stuff like that,
in actors and stuff,
what have you learnt from that experience?
And what will you change going forward?
Yeah, so the one thing we have always seen
very effective is we are very local.
We go as local as possible
because our audience space
is very heterogenous.
Unlike tier 1 which also is like very…
If you look at Instagram,
it looks very homogenous, right?
Like tier 1 tends to behave
very similarly.
As soon as you go beyond, it does not.
So we've always been very local.
So, we go to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
and pick an actor
or pick an actress or a celebrity
that connects with that person.
So, I'm saying we have always been
very local,
and we have seen that
to be very effective,
um, but at the end of the day,
it's capital allocation, right?
You spend X amount or you spend Y amount,
-you see where the ROI happens.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
We've seen, over time,
like, it's not that you need to have
a celebrity all the time, right?
So we keep changing celebrities so that…
the company's image
is not attached to one person.
That is also a risk,
at the end of the day.
How much does your ROI go up
when you use a celebrity?
-Huh?
-How much does you ROI go up…
while you're using a celebrity
versus not using?
-Is there a tangible difference?
-Very hard to estimate, yeah.
Super hard. Like, if someone asks you
this question, it's all anecdotal.
It's… Like, people build
stories around it.
No one can estimate.
Uh…
Which was your biggest hit of marketing
last year? What worked best?
[Vidit] So, our Diwali campaign
did very well,
which is where we did localization.
So, we kind of…
We had different celebrities
for different parts of the country.
Right? We had Sourav Ganguly
for West Bengal,
we had Ram Charan
for a certain state in South India.
So, I'm saying it's… it's…
Basically, we went very local.
And we saw that to be much more effective
than having one person
who appeals to all the country,
because we realized
it's close to impossible
to find one person
who appeals to everyone.
You can find cricketers,
but they still appeal to males
and not to females.
So, it's very, very hard.
So, I'm saying we have…
We found localization
to be very effective.
-Hmm. Should we eat off and then continue?
-[Sujeet] Yeah, yeah.
You wanna say something?
No. I was just saying that
even celebrities,
they are investing significant time
to become an influencer,
if you see the trend.
Like a cricketer is showing,
"I'm going to bed", singing.
[stuttering] Showing someone…
You'll see all those.
And they are, like,
a serious of time they spend.
They also understand those trends.
So they want to…
Even in that space, they are competing,
they want to become
one of the largest influencers.
In our space, in fintech, there are some…
There is Sharan, there is Rachana Ranade,
there is Think School.
I think these guys are…
Uh, especially people like Think School,
uh, I think there is a…
there is a big divide between
the quality of content they are doing
and other people are doing.
I don't know how they have
arrived at that point…
I'm not an investor in Think School,
I'm not promoting them
in anyway whatsoever.
But I think the future
of information dissemination,
even about finance, is going to move
from traditional channels
to people like them.
Like, I don't think the day is far,
five years from now,
somebody will not be watching the news,
they will be watching Think School…
for their news.
And I wonder how
this entire equation changes,
and who becomes celebrities
of ten years from now.
It'd be quite interesting
to see how the world changes, though.
I think celebrity…
I think earlier because…
Most of the followers,
they're related to celebrities.
I think in my mind, let's say,
if I like cricket,
or let's say some sport,
it's a skill game,
I think that will not change.
I am still going to prefer that.
But how commercially I can associate?
I think that might be different.
But lots of things that I liked
was because that guy was doing it.
I wanted to be seen like him
or something like fitness or…
or some of the clothing styles.
But who will sell those products…
might be different.
I think like we were speaking,
let's get some insights from sir.
We want to know the past, the present,
and the future of commerce in the country.
[in Hindi] No one can explain it
better than you.
[Sujeet] You have seen it all.
I think, uh, whatever 30-35 years
we've worked,
there are a lot of things
which you learn during the journey.
And journey is,
a lot of people believe
India is an infinite market
because of 20% of the world's population.
And I think that's…
India is a very, very interesting country,
the most heterogenous country
you can ever believe in.
I will give you an interesting example
of a temple or a religious economy.
[speaking in Hindi]
And I believe 20% of India
or 30% of India,
in some sense, lives on government aid.
But unfortunately, the reports
which the consulting companies make…
I was just reading all the data…
[speaking in Hindi]
And to make that happen…
It can't happen with commodity play
or it can't happen with…
where the value addition is not there.
So, my theory which… I wrote it also
a long time back in my book
is anybody… I call that
India is divided into three parts.
"Three India", according to consumption:
India 1, India 2, India 3.
India 1 is the consuming class.
Anybody who has a domestic help
for me is a consuming class.
Because consuming
does not mean basic consumption,
but some value added consumption.
India 2 is a serving class
which makes our lives better.
The driver, the helpers, the peon,
the watchman, the liftman.
And for every one India 1,
there is 3-3.5 India 2.
And unfortunately, India 1 doesn't give
enough money to India 2
to make them consume
discretionary products.
And then, there is India 3,
which is farm laborers,
daily aides, factory workers.
[speaking in Hindi]
And that's not huge.
I would say, in a city like Bombay,
it's a very interesting definition.
Until some years ago…
25% of people used to live in apartments.
I would say ten years ago.
Today, it might be 35%.
5%-8% people lived in chawls.
And the balance lived in slums.
So…
India, I think every city will represent
in some way or the other…
But if you had to aggregate the country,
what do you think?
I would say 11%-13% would be
the consuming class.
-India 1?
-India 1.
[Vidit] Which is 20 crore.
Which is around 20 crores.
[clearing throat]
And it might be growing.
And I think it's growing.
And at what pace of growth will depend…
will determine everything.
And unfortunately, we live
in that community only. That India 1.
[speaking in Hindi]
[all laugh]
"I wanted to see India."
[speaking in Hindi]
And that's why I always say…
There was a movie which became
very popular during our times.
There was a movie called
Jaane Bhi Do Yaaro.
There was a song called
"Hum Honge Kamyab Ek Din".
[speaking in Hindi]
In India, we want to succeed.
But I think India is 20%…
18%-20% of the world's population.
For the whole world, I think it was
the European economy,
the American economy which consumes,
which made the world grow.
Then the Chinese economy
Now, it's India's time.
India will have to learn to consume much,
much more than what they are consuming.
And that's what will drive
economic growth.
[Sujeet] But some of the numbers,
if you will see, sir…
I'm not contesting about A, B, and C,
they are a bucket.
The places we have come
from, I totally agree.
But some of the numbers if you'll see,
if it's true,
I think it's mind-boggling.
India's GDP, when I was
passing out in 2003,
was around $500 billion.
Am I right? It's been 20 years…
And now it's… I'm just saying
about the number published,
it's around $3.5 trillion. Seven times,
it has increased in 20 years.
Let's say farm GDP, which is 17%-18%…
I think that's the number, 16% to 18%,
which comes around $550-$600
billion at this level.
But that farm income
is only happening in tier 2 and beyond.
[speaking in Hindi]
80% of it.
But those numbers, even because…
No tax and all.
On PPP, I think it's around,
if you'll see,
it can create a $800-$900 billion
kind of impact.
That's a huge number.
[speaking in Hindi]
Value addition…
[both speaking in Hindi]
Ultimately, you need X amount…
The best consumption happens
when the economy is
around $7,000 to $11,000 per person.
Earlier, it was $4,000,
now people say it is $5,000 or $6,000.
-I would say… per capita.
-[Sujeet] Per capita.
[Nikhil] But do you think
that's the main metric that matters,
per capita GDP?
Per capita matters a lot.
Even when you are calculating
per capita GDP,
you're taking total GDP
and dividing by population?
No, you remove some bit of it.
So, it is around 2,700, currently.
How do you arrive at that number, though?
Do you think the total,
divide by population?
The average people use,
which is 2,000, is with that.
That would skew everything, right?
But yeah, the distribution,
which is what you come to.
There are so many economies
within that economy.
Yeah, the government said that
it was 2,500 recently, but….
[speaking in Hindi]
If you take out your Ambani and Adani
from the top,
it's a completely different…
-It's a massive Pareto.
-It's a 10/80.
India is a very, very interesting…
Another statistic which I want to…
India has two crore weddings a year.
As in, one crore weddings,
two crore families.
We produce 2.5 crore children every year.
And our wedding economy is 15 lakh crores.
Average spend of 7 lakh rupees
in a family,
multiplied by two crore families
is 14 lakh crores.
[speaking in Hindi]
[both speaking in Hindi]
There is not one dominant player
or three-four dominant players.
[in Hindi] India is so heterogenous,
so it's going on the way it does.
[in Hindi] You cannot customize weddings.
[speaking in Hindi]
But do you think it's an
opportunity, weddings?
People have created,
made that into a business.
Look at Manyavar as a brand now.
It is built on weddings.
Manyavar is wedding aggregation.
And there might be many, many brands.
Every city has brands.
But still, if you look at
15 lakh crores scale,
and then you look at Manyavar,
it doesn't feel proportionate, right?
[Sujeet and Kishore speaking in Hindi]
In India, consumption is driven by
a lot of societal events.
Look at the harvesting festival,
There, consumption used to happen
during harvesting,
which talks about your
agricultural economy.
[speaking in Hindi]
I think the IT/technology business
created around how many people?
Nearly crore-plus families
would have gotten into that business.
And that created a lot of consumption.
We need next round of economy…
What do you think the next round will be?
I think we will have to participate
in something…
I think the creative economy
is a big economy
which is creator economy,
creative economy.
India can excel there also.
We are fascinated by the generative AI.
Very, very fascinated.
Imagine in retail business,
in a grocery business,
somebody will tell that that they want
to make this item for the next five days…
the retailer will give exact quantity
of what you want.
So, the packaging will change,
everything will change.
Any new technology
will bring in so many changes.
The whole ecosystem around it changes.
Also, another question.
I'm gonna come to both of you and ask…
What are the trends for the future,
and what do you see changing?
But since you three have worked
so much in this space…
At the core of it…
[speaking in Hindi]
Why does something sell?
And why does something not sell?
If you had to provide insights from that,
what would you say?
Maybe you can start first.
I think a product sells
because it fulfills the needs
of the customer.
So what we used to say is
there is a daily want,
and there is a daily need of a customer.
And there is occasional want,
and occasional needs.
So your product has to fit in somewhere.
And there are occasional consumptions,
and there are daily consumptions.
Your product has to solve
the needs of that customer,
the wants of that customer.
Secondly, a product sells because
you are fulfilling some vanity
or some ego of that person,
if you are selling a high-value product.
So how do you recognize these needs?
If I am somebody who wants
to sell a product today,
how will I get data
on what cures somebody's ego or vanity,
what is his need?
How do I go about figuring out
what product to design?
I think the society is changing,
the world is changing.
You can look at what is getting popular.
So… Like, we always thought
when OTT came in,
and COVID made it happen that people
watched the longer form of storytelling,
nobody believed that storytelling
can be told in 10 hours or 20 hours.
Storytelling was supposed to be
within less than three hours.
It changed the whole market.
I think the whole content market,
the cinema, the multiplexes,
it will undergo a significant change.
So… now what to produce
which the customer or the audience likes?
Today, the entire Hindi
Bollywood film industry is struggling.
There was a movie, I am told,
it didn't run for even a day.
They had to take it out.
And these kind of mishaps
are happening like crazy.
[Sujeet] Yeah.
So what do you create
for multiplexes as content?
I think everybody
is getting to the drawing board, uh…
By the way, this is true for retail
very, very strongly.
I've seen… when the channel changes,
what sells also changes.
[Kishore] Yeah, absolutely.
-Always. Right?
-Absolutely.
Because as soon as the channel changes,
like, what you discover first…
For example, earlier,
when you used to go offline,
you would touch the product,
that was a big part of what you buy.
Now you can't do it, right?
So, suddenly, pricing takes a big…
Like, I have seen, online,
pricing suddenly is a lot more important
because touch and quality is somehow…
it's very hard to pick.
Now merchandising, inspiration,
photographs, social matters a lot,
which was not there earlier.
So, as soon as channel changes,
like, your… what sells changes,
like, completely.
Now Internet was a big thing,
mobile was a big thing.
Now AI, I don't know what that is, right?
AI will also kind of change
some of these channels.
-[Kishore] Absolutely.
-Meta was supposed to be…
Now it doesn't feel like
it is gonna happen any time soon.
But if that happened…
…has a good…
has big potential in shopping?
It should be.
If medium becomes large, by the way,
then the channel…
especially for shopping will change.
But then what you buy
will be very different.
If these guys, like Meta,
with all the access to so much information
is spending $15 billion
or $16 billion a year
on creating that ecosystem…
would you say it's likely that
that will be the future?
It's… It's very hard.
Because historically, if you see,
whenever big technology shifts come,
they generally don't come
from large companies,
they come from start-ups, right?
It's very hard that they will know
what people need… Meta will know, right?
Like, that's a… Like, every single time,
all of these technologies that come,
they have never come
from existing large incumbents, right?
So I find it unlikely that it'll happen.
It may happen. Like, who knows?
-But historically, it's never been.
-[Nikhil] Right.
And what do you think…
Like I was asking him,
what do you think is working today,
and what do you think will work tomorrow
when it comes to selling a product?
So I think I… Again, my assessment is…
this whole thing of serving need
has become a lot more of
serving aspirations now.
As I was saying, most people come…
[Nikhil] Is that because
society is changing?
So, both. People now have a lot more
discretionary income, as people say.
So it's not that when they want
to buy, they buy.
Now people open the app,
and they want to look like this celebrity
or look like this influencer
because they feel it's much better.
And they fulfill their aspiration,
they feel much more happier.
Right? So now, I think some bit of that
consumption has started to happen.
And we're still talking about
that 15-20 crore population of India?
Like, for example,
just in the last 12 months,
14 crore people have gotten Meesho.
-So I'm saying it's a large…
-They go to a much larger audience.
So now… It's a lot of people who are…
Like the India 2 is there.
We have a lot of India 2 users
on our platform.
So you're saying, is Meesho predominantly
India 1 with some India 2
or is it like India 1 plus India 2?
I would say both. Both, balanced.
We don't have… India 1 is
a very broad segment, right?
So we don't have the top 10-15 million,
I would say. But everyone else after.
Do you see India 2's
discretionary income rising?
So… it's still small.
And that's why our job is to, like,
within that small wallet,
still help them fulfill those aspirations.
They still go on Instagram,
they still follow someone.
And they say, "Hey, no,
I don't have the same amount of money,
"can you help me fulfill this aspiration
in a very small budget?"
Which is what we solve.
But they also have aspirations.
Very, very strong ones.
No, we had a very interesting…
another theory.
Like, India 1 consumes in their lifetime…
I would have consumed
at least 10,000 SKUs.
Uh, but India 2 or India 3…
India 3 will be 200 SKUs.
India 2 would be, I don't know how much,
but not more than 400-500
in their lifetime.
-That's rising.
-[Vidit] Correct.
I would say India 2 would have consumed
only 100 SKUs at one point of time,
-now it's rising.
-[Vidit] Going up.
Now they want from that,
to a toothpaste, to this,
to a cream, to everything.
So that's… that's happening.
So you're saying it makes sense
to build products
which appear to be aspirational today.
And what do you think will be tomorrow?
It's very hard. I just feel like
a lot of this as per capita goes up,
this 2,000 goes to 4,000,
most of the increase is happening
in discretionary, and not like…
People fulfill their
non-discretionary needs anyway, right?
So, it's gonna come here.
So I feel this aspirational thing
is gonna compound
and grow non-linearly going forward.
Like, everyone is doing it,
and everyone is doing it individually now.
So, earlier it used to be a family affair,
now everyone is fulfilling
their own aspirations separately.
Everyone follows someone else
on Instagram.
Everyone else has different things
that they aspire for.
And they are fulfilling it
again and again.
And our job is
to basically make it affordable.
Right? Like, how do we make them
achieve their aspirations affordably
is what we focus on as a company.
Right, right. Do you wanna go next?
Yeah, like, it's a very complex thing.
-If you'll see…
-What trend is working today…
So if I am building a product for today,
what do you think I should keep in mind?
And what trend do you think
will be there tomorrow?
Today… [clears throat]
If you'll see, it's a…
If you are talking about commerce,
it drives from your unit economics,
am I right?
Currently, it's making
lots of sense to optimize,
let's say on supply chain,
sourcing, inventory…
And everywhere, the technology goes.
There's a festival, these SKUs go.
So, currently, we are picking off
which SKU, how, what,
and all those things.
We are building a technology,
infrastructure,
consumption, predicting,
"Hey, next time, next year,
"40% it will grow in this channel."
But how channels are changing, it's…
it's very different.
Like, I was just describing,
Gen Zs are thinking
in a very different way…
about their consumption.
Um, millennials are definitely
a bit thinking,
and the other… like traditional consumers
who are price-sensitive, quality,
touch and feel.
I'll give one example,
a Gen Z was saying that,
"Size matters too much to me.
"I am not going to buy online."
-[in Hindi] What were they talking about?
-Clothing size.
Sorry. So, "I am not going to buy online,
"because, for me,
I am buying and then returning again.
"I wanted it to fit and look
exactly like the celebrity."
"So, for me, the price-sensitivity
is not that much, for me these…
"And offline gives me that flexibility.
"So, I will see here,
but I want to buy what I like offline.
"Because that is instant,
if I am able to buy offline."
So, it's a different kind of…
I never imagined…
Because there are so many policies,
we are saying that, "Hey, I will return
within five days, ten days."
Again, fulfill…
No, no, it will not matter.
For me, it takes a lot of time.
Either I should order five, six sizes…
then my money gets stuck.
The insight is that we have to watch out
where the consumers are spending
most of their time.
And we have to build some of the products
according to that channel.
So, if you see, most of the evolution,
and sir will agree…
has happened in technology on the backend,
rationalizing the technology
for applications like
what to give to consumers,
like pricing search, SKU search,
cataloguing, things like that.
All those investments have happened
in the last 15 years,
I can at least say that.
But nobody knows
which channel is picking up.
So I think that's where I am saying,
now the time is to find a consumer,
their money, where they are liking,
what's their liking, every…-
Like, for fashion…
Logically, let's say, social media
is one of the most leading channels.
But for consumer goods, like white goods,
is it the performance? Is it the support?
Is it the pricing? I don't know.
Let's say, buying AC on social media
is very hard to imagine.
Mobile phone, I am very clear
because it's feature-led. Camera-led.
Camera is dominating mobile as a category,
because that's the consideration set
for the new generation
as well as everyone else.
Say your son grows up in five years,
and he's shopping…
I don't know. He will buy something
within the game.
-He's playing…
-[Vidit and Kishore chuckle]
He can click, "I wanted to order this,
I wanted to look like this."
I don't know.
-Might be that's not the mainstream.
-[Nikhil] Right.
Another question I wanted to ask is…
When aggregation happens
even in between platforms,
like, soon maybe we will get to a point
where Meesho is selling
everything that is available,
Amazon is selling everything
that is available,
Udaan, Flipkart, everybody…
will it come down to curation
and legitimacy in a way
as to how I pick
which platform to shop on?
By the way, it ends up being
what your value prop is.
So, for example,
Amazon is very, very focused on…
So, tell me about everybody,
because you're in this.
Finish with Meesho.
What is Amazon's value proposition?
Amazon's is, like, convenience.
So, I wanna stand for convenience, right?
So, they will make sure
that everything that you order,
you always feel like it comes faster here,
as compared to anyone else.
But the flip side is that
often the product is fake
and the quality checks are not at par.
It could be. Right?
And that, by the way,
it's a thing that
they will continue to improve.
But one thing they want to stand for,
which is this, convenience. Right?
And everything else
if you ask me is secondary.
They'll continue
to make some improvements.
It's not like you have to
achieve excellence here.
But they're gonna do this,
they're gonna stand for it.
They will not sell anything
where this somehow gets diluted.
Because of the brand, right?
The value add
that people remember you for is that.
When they come to Meesho, people believe,
"This selection, I will not get for, uh,
a more affordable price anywhere else."
They have to believe this.
And I will get
the largest possible selection
in the price points that I can afford.
That also I have to believe.
Now, everything we do in our business,
basically…
I don't know, I think it is
a category-wise difference, and maybe…
[Nikhil] What is Flipkart
and Amazon's distinction?
[Sujeet] I think…
-For a long time,
if I have to tell you the truth,
I bought stuff on Flipkart
out of some stupid notion
that they're an Indian company
and nationalism.
But now, after Walmart deal,
I don't see any distinction
between Flipkart and Walmart.
I would just as well buy on Amazon
as I might on Flipkart.
How does Flipkart distinguish itself?
I think the DNA of the company,
I can definitely talk about.
I think we were building the…
company, it was like "How to give
the best value proposition?"
Let's say prices, service, let's say COD,
building logistics around that,
something like that. Am I right?
Would you put that
in the category of convenience
and say Flipkart thought that
there is room for two players?
Value proposition could be pricing.
-Like, it's good price, like that.
-[Nikhil] Hmm.
Definitely, price has lots of aspects,
I am not going into that,
but offering what Indian consumer wants…
I think Amazon has, like he was saying,
that convenience.
But that audience, even in bucket A,
is very narrow.
What do you think about multiplexes?
This is a good segue
into a very interesting question.
I remember you owned a bit of multiplexes.
I still have. I have reduced
my shareholding, I have about 2%.
-And I keep asking a lot of…
-[Vidit] Of PVR?
I was on the board of INOX
for a long time.
[Nikhil] Now they have merged,
PVR and INOX have merged.
So, you'd know. You should tell us this.
Like, you are interrogating us.
I think you should also answer
some of these.
You tell us what's gonna happen
in multiplexes.
I'll tell you, truly.
What were your beliefs,
and why did you choose it?
My tryst with multiplex companies
started many years ago. Okay?
Like, maybe six or seven years ago,
I had a very bearish outlook of them.
Six-seven years ago, pre-pandemic.
Much, much before pandemic.
I shorted them to begin with
when PVR was at 1,300 bucks, 1,400 bucks.
There were a couple of policy changes
which were happening,
the foremost of them being, uh…
it was in court
that people will be allowed
to bring outside food and water,
and drink it inside the multiplex
and eat it.
And food as an income source
for multiplexes is really high.
As high as 40-45%.
Then it changed pre-pandemic
when I went long on these companies,
because my reasoning changed to India 2,
like sir mentioned, is growing.
In terms of entertainment
for a family of four for three hours
at sub-Rs 1,000
in a safe air-conditioned environment,
the alternatives were not many.
One could argue that cricket
is an alternative,
but I thought as India 2 grows,
the relevance of multiplex will go up,
and they also become
these distribution hubs,
which I don't think they have
up until now,
but if people are going there so often,
it gives them the opportunity
to do other kind of marketing.
branding, advertising, all kinds of stuff.
Where I sit today, I am confused.
Like everything else in my life,
I'm shrouded in ambiguity on both sides,
because when I talk to people who…
Say, when I talk to somebody
who is the CEO of Hotstar.
He's… Now the Bangalore guy, right?
Like Sajith has become the CEO.
The ex-Google Pay guy.
[Sujeet] Sajith is also our neighbor.
Yeah, so he would give me an outlook
of why OTT will kill traditional cinema.
But then, I talked to somebody
like a UFO Movies,
which is also another company
I have invested in.
They manage the technology around
projecting the movie on the screen.
There I start to think,
the number of screens available,
the density of screens in India
is still, like, much, much lower.
Like, I would say in the US,
there is one multiplex screen
for 30,000-40,000 people.
In China, maybe for a few
hundred thousand people.
In India, there is one screen for many,
many hundreds of thousands of people.
And to a large part of India,
watching a movie is still going…
[in Hindi] You know, that truck
comes with a screen in the villages,
and then everybody gets together?
With no kind of choice
as to what content they get to watch.
-So, for me…
-[Vidit] But on this last point,
as Kishore ji was saying,
anywhere where you use
the population number is somewhat…
the "per X number of people" has a lot
of India 3 which skews this metric.
How do you get to the right number?
Secondly, people believe that India 2
wants to come into India 1.
I don't think so.
Societally, they look down upon us.
I also think that's the right way.
I feel like we follow or we try to follow
on the path of the West and China so much,
by thinking that everybody
moving into cities,
all of this is good for the economy
and growth and all of that.
I personally believe, for many reasons,
fragmentation is actually a model
that could work better for today
than it did for China 20-30 years ago.
So, Nikhil, I want to say something
for this multiplex thing.
You know, when mobile phone
came into the picture,
and everybody wanted to buy
a mobile phone,
where did the budget come from?
-They had to reduce some spend somewhere.
-[Nikhil] Right.
And the biggest impact came on fashion.
And we were a part
of the fashion business then.
And people were changing phones
in the first six months.
Everybody was changing phones
much, much faster. Now, it's slowed down.
So, what has happened,
if you look at the multiplex industry,
that money you have spent,
which was supposed to go to multiplexes,
they are going to restaurants now.
People are spending two and a half hours,
families sitting together,
friends sitting together
and spending that Rs 1,500-2,000 per head.
And that money is clearly seen.
People don't want to watch content.
-Can I ask you another question here?
-[Kishore] Mm.
Like, the listed restaurant chains,
you take Jubilant, you take Westlife,
take the franchises
of big Western counterparts,
McDonald's, Burger King, KFC, all of that,
they all command a significant premium
to the market, right?
They trade at, let's say,
they are earning Rs 100,
their valuation is 7,000, 8,000,
in some cases 20,000, all of that…
But the unlisted space in restaurants…
what happens if somebody
comes in and aggregates?
Like, we spoke about Saravana Bhavan,
there are so many of these in India,
right?
If somebody comes and aggregates
a bunch of these chains
where the total sales comes up on par
with, say, the Western counterparts
which have franchises,
do you think there is an arbitrage
between the valuation of this to that?
[Kishore] But they don't need money.
Rameshwaram, why will he need money?
They refuse to talk.
It is impossible.
Because if you are a good business,
you don't need money at all.
But the question is,
does a business often need money
in order to scale?
-If that is the case, with more money…
-They don't want scale.
We all assume that everybody wants scale.
I also thought similarly.
If we want scale, we expect everybody…
For the last one and a half years,
I have spent lots of time on this.
Money-making businesses,
especially in this, restaurants,
most of them make money,
especially the good ones whom we know.
-80%, they don't want money.
-[Kishore] Yeah, yeah.
They don't want to expand.
And why don't they want to expand?
They simply say,
"Our quality will deteriorate."
"I don't want these headaches."
"I don't want to dilute." They don't want.
I think there are two categories,
there are…
A few people who are defensive.
But I'm sure there are people
who are aggressive also.
By the way, people who you…
Let's say Vidyarthi Bhavan,
go and talk to the owner.
Yeah, but you see the experience.
Such a big brand, then you go there
and you have 100 people
who are standing outside.
That guy does not know
how to monetize the asset.
That is where the people are going.
But I'll tell you, why are temples created
where there is no pain?
Because without pain, there is no gain.
[Vidit laughing]
There are queues when you go the temple…
-Have you gone to Rameshwaram Cafe?
-[Vidit] I have, I have.
I go to Rameshwaram weekly,
and every time, I get amazed.
Sometimes, there is
a 200 metre line at the billing.
-[Vidit] You go to Indiranagar?
-Yes.
I go to the one in Whitefield
which is a much larger place,
you'll get to eat.
No, I understand,
but Indiranagar is iconic.
No, but at the core of it, right…
I get the point you guys are making,
but I like to believe that we live
in an aspirational capitalistic ecosystem.
-[Vidit] Correct.
-Not as much as what we think.
Yes. But to a certain extent,
we are capitalistic.
There is no debate on that,
but it is not as much as we think.
If somebody has the opportunity to expand
and be a bigger winner
in the cycle of capitalism,
I think human tendency will persuade him
in that direction, eventually.
At whatever pace.
To whatever level of magnitude.
New food and new things are showing,
but I don't know the reason.
Like, I have my own experience
in restaurant business.
We came in too early like Silsila movie.
It was a little ahead of its time.
[Vidit laughs]
-I like your movie analogy.
-[Vidit] Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, we used to run
most of the chains in Bombay.
[Vidit] Ah!
-Bombay Blues, Noodle Bar, Copper Chimney.
-[Sujeet] I got it. I know them.
-Sports bars.
-[Sujeet] Ahead of time, ahead of time.
Very ahead of its time.
And how much money we lost, we only know.
But now I think it's the right time.
The problem with restaurants is
that the per capita expenditure
of building a restaurant is very high,
and the life of a restaurant is very low.
-I'm talking about QSR now.
-QSR, then you will be very successful.
[Sujeet] Yeah.
Is that why the franchise model
with so much standardization do better?
It is the industrialization
of restaurants.
-That's a QSR.
-[Kishore] Yeah.
Not all QSRs, in a way.
-Most of it.
-Yeah, most of it.
Let say if I add Rameshwaram,
for me, it will be a QSR
if I am going to scale it.
But, that… [chuckles]
-That's how I see it.
-[Kishore] Yeah.
But, you see, Rameshwaram
also gets an extra space outside
for which he is not paying,
where people are standing and eating.
So…
I think there is a novelty
attached to that.
-Whenever you see…
-You won't find another place like that.
[speaking in Hindi]
That is so true.
[in Hindi] Like, if I had
to open a restaurant,
I would only put five chairs inside
and request people to wait outside.
That would probably give me more business
than having 40 chairs in there.
-Correct.
-[Nikhil] In a weird way, that works.
You never know.
But food is a very interesting…
Indians love discovering new food.
I'm telling you about this coffee chain.
Two-three years back,
no investor was willing to invest
because they believe that…
[in Hindi] "It won't work in India."
[in English] Now if you see what happened,
even I don't know why it is the way it is.
But wherever these stores are opening,
it doesn't matter if it is Bangalore
or Delhi or Mumbai…
It is only in four-five cities,
they are going crazy.
-I'm still finding that part…
-It's not about that.
It's about people spending time,
it's a social interaction.
Earlier also, it was that,
but nobody was believing it.
It was on the verge of closing down.
Coffee is one of the by-product
of whatever other activities
you are doing.
Maybe, sometimes, it is the main activity,
but you tend to get to
the other activities.
I agree with you 100%.
I'm also a small investor with him
in Third Wave, Hatti Kaapi,
and a couple of coffee places.
When I was reviewing coffee chains,
and I was trying to do it
as objectively as I could,
the difference between
the West and India is,
in the West,
people are going into a coffee shop
to actually drink coffee.
The culture of buying a coffee
and walking, especially in New York,
is such a big thing
that the financials work out for them.
Here if you sell a coffee at Rs 200-300
and people have to sit there
two hours to consume it,
and you have to pay for the real estate,
the numbers, you look at it
from a different light, altogether.
So, I don't think
in that particular instance,
especially in coffee,
we can equate what happens here
to what happens in the West,
to your earlier example,
because I don't think
we will copy what they are doing.
So you're saying it is harder
to make money here in coffee in India?
Restaurants have just started
making money in India.
Yeah, but they have started making money.
-Hmm?
-But they have started making money.
QSR are making good money.
-Good money…
-Early to say that, but let's see.
[speaking in Hindi]
How much money
did you spend on your wedding?
On my wedding? I spent very less, yeah.
This was like long ago, before…
-[Sujeet] When did you get married?
-…I had raised any money, so…
-When did you get married?
-I got married in 2018, beginning.
-2018.
-[In Hindi] That's very recent. Sujeet?
I got married in 2012.
But I was, at that time, 31 years old.
[Kishore giggles]
Delhi.
-My wife is from Haryana.
-[Nikhil] Hmm.
Would you like to say something
about your personal life?
Like just… You've seen so much in life,
if you had to advise Vidit,
who's new into this whole family,
marriage,
doesn't have kids yet situation…
-He also has decided never to have kids.
-[Sujeet] You also.
No, no, I haven't.
-At least not yet. I don't know.
-[all laughing]
[Sujeet] He also needs some help.
[Sujeet laughing]
Lost cause.
I personally believe, philosophically,
life is a series of events.
And… you have to enjoy, relish,
cherish every event which comes in.
Some events will be very heart-pleasing,
and some events will be not so great.
But I think the fun is
having all kinds of events.
If you look at my life, we grew at 30%,
life was unbelievable.
It was up, up, up only.
The lower side was much, much lower.
This is like a tough question,
I don't know
if I should even ask it or not.
But in that 30% growth cycle,
let's assume two or three things
went wrong, right?
What do you think…
I believe that in life
there are two buckets of things,
one you can control,
another you can't control.
For what you can't control,
there's no point breaking your head
over it.
Just as advice to us,
who are entrepreneurs,
budding ones, and people around,
what do you think went
wrong, what caused it,
and if you had to do it over again,
what might you change?
So, I'm a… As a personality,
I'm an impulsive person.
So, what went wrong
is basically growing on debt,
and not building a strong balance sheet.
So, that is one thing which was apparent.
My daughter just started
studying Shakespeare.
So, the other day, some ten days back,
she came out of the class
and she called me up,
"Dad, I had one of the best days
of my life."
I studied a concept of storytelling
called tragic flaw.
So, every character which Shakespeare
built had a tragic flaw,
and he used to highlight that flaw
in that character.
Then I started looking at Ramayana,
Mahabharata, and everybody had a flaw.
But flaw in India was
never highlighted as much.
We were taught that everybody is perfect.
So, everybody has a fatal flaw…
I converted this tragic flaw
into a fatal flaw.
And I started analyzing my fatal flaw.
And I was able to discover a lot.
So… [chuckles]
And everybody has that flaw.
And I believe every entrepreneur
has some flaw.
Which, I think… which should be taught.
And if somebody can work on it,
they will make less number of mistakes
and will be more successful.
So I have gone through flaws
and flaws and flaws.
-So, all psycho…
-How do we discover
that fatal flaw for us?
All psychology says this.
If you go through Jung, Freud, Adler,
like, much after Shakespeare's time,
obviously, but…
We are all flawed, right?
We are all insecure,
we are all not as altruistic
like we might like to believe
at some level or we might like to portray.
There is one true us,
there is one persona of us
which we have created in our own mind,
which we believe is not flawed.
That persona.
And we spend so much time and effort
defending that persona
and denying our flaw
that it makes life more complicated
even for us and for people around us.
So, different people call it
different things.
I think people like Jung and Adler
call it as "shadow".
It is driven by many things,
like, your childhood
has such a big impact on it.
What you did between ages
three-four to eight-nine
will have so much to do
with what your shadow is today.
The financial condition of your parents,
the relationship
between your mother and father,
your relationship with your siblings,
and also, innately,
how you're born as a person.
So, every psychology book kinda tells you
that "Recognize your flaws."
They, in fact, help you out
by doing some categorization.
They say this could be
a certain kind of person,
that could be a certain kind of person…
But, Nikhil, this should be
taught to entrepreneurs.
And you can find…
I have a very simple philosophy of life:
Music has seven notes,
there are five primary colors,
and there are nine recorded emotions
of human beings.
Life is not so complex.
So, if you look
at the flaws of entrepreneurs,
I think it can be defined very well.
And there are people like me…
Or many people like us
who have made lot of mistakes,
and how can it be recorded and taught?
[Nikhil] Especially for entrepreneurs…
[in Hindi] …another problem
of ours is that…
[in English] …we all gotten lucky
in the cycle of life.
See, we are all sitting
here outside of [bleep]
because we have gotten very lucky, right?
I mean, Vidit is brilliant,
Sujeet is brilliant,
you are brilliant,
but, at some level, luck has played
a disproportionate part
of how we've arrived to be
where we are today.
But the problem, especially
in start-up crowds, is…
Because somebody goes
from A to Z in two years,
in three years, in five years,
in six years…
you don't start to take
yourself so seriously,
but the scale of everything
you're saying and doing is so much bigger
that what you were saying
and doing five years ago,
today will be looked at
through a completely different lens.
So, even for that reason,
I think what he said is so true that
we need to… Introspecting is
the hardest thing in life, maybe.
And that's what I was going to ask,
like, how do you find these fatal flaws?
I'm sure you now have some ways…
After destruction, you can easily find it.
-[loud laughter]
-Suddenly, you are open to it.
I think we always created an organization
which allowed dissent,
so that was not the challenge.
Secondly, we never kept along
with ourselves our echo chambers.
Never in our life.
Everybody knows your weakness,
everybody who is around you
will know your weakness.
So you should ask them?
No! They will never tell you
your weakness ever.
-Yeah, yeah…
-So, how do we get it out, then?
[Kishore speaking in Hindi]
The first thing to do is
-normalize having flaws.
-[Kishore] Yeah.
The problem with social media
and anonymity,
what it has done is, people go out there
and say [bleep] about everybody.
One should not care, but in many cases
you find yourself caring.
But until we come to terms with the fact
that you are flawed,
Sujeet is flawed, he is flawed,
I am flawed…
until we realize that we each are,
and then we realize that we all are,
I think people will be scared and shy
of coming out with their flaws.
By the way, I have one disagreement
which is,
I believe most entrepreneurs
are very paranoid also.
So they believe something is
gonna go wrong at all points in time,
and keep trying to figure it out.
And that's why I feel if you tell them
that there's something wrong,
where they go, "Yes, I can fix this,
and basically fixing this
"would mean that something will grow."
And, all of that happens,
but I genuinely feel people are…
This is not what the flaw is…
But people are paranoid.
He's talking not about paranoia,
he's talking… I'll give you an example…
[Kishore] Personality.
He was saying… I'm saying that
people want to acknowledge
that they could have flaws?
I believe that is not true.
I believe most people are paranoid.
They just have a blind side
that no one exposes them to.
I'll give you an example of a flaw.
[Sujeet] I just wanted
to add to that point,
when he was saying that there are people…
As an entrepreneur, what you do is,
you focus too much on work.
You circle starts getting shrunk.
And then, you get surrounded by people
who might know but never want to share.
Having those circles where people
can tell you… It's very hard.
Who can tell you, speak with you frankly,
or can give you
some kind of feedback, suggestion,
and you should be open to that.
Because if you give a reaction,
those channels are going to close.
I think those feedback channels
are very important,
but it's an investment.
It's an investment,
it automatically doesn't happen.
But every entrepreneur,
I personally believe can easily learn it.
They are open to ideas and thoughts.
-No, sir, but it's very hard when…
-It's hard.
…when it comes to talk about…
Imagine, every corner, family member,
mother, father,
everybody says that you are perfect.
[both speaking in Hindi]
And your reaction, control,
that feedback will come again or not?
If you give a different kind of reaction,
like you are, "Don't talk [bleep]."
But our education also…
Look at Rama.
Rama is the perfect human being.
-[Vidit] Yeah, that's true.
-But he was also flawed.
It was all about righteousness over…
[Sujeet in Hindi] No,
but how do you identify it?
[in English] I think the question was
how to control that.
People are like, "We have to go…
He understood the subject in one second.
He added up five things more…
There will be people like him who will…
Psychology is the best teacher.
I will tell you personally, for me, right,
in the last three years,
I have stopped reading
all books on finance, economy,
which I used to spend time reading
while I was growing up.
-[Sujeet] History and psychology.
-I just do history and psychology,
I keep telling him.
It's incredible how you will start
looking at yourself from a different lens.
-Because we all spend…
-[Sujeet] And mythology.
-[Kishore] Totally.
-[Sujeet] I'm adding.
[Sujeet and Kishore chuckle softly]
-We took mythology as a subject. Yeah.
-[Nikhil] Hmm. Okay.
To digress again, ONDC.
Who is going to explain it?
Is it life-changing for anybody
trying to build a product in e-commerce?
What do you think will happen
to ONDC going forward?
I think you, especially,
more than all people,
because you have these
tiny mom-and-pop kind of stores
who come and specifically sell on Meesho.
Can you explain?
Yeah, so for people who don't know ONDC,
ONDC basically…
We got a lesson today, little bit.
-[Vidit chuckles]
-Before this meeting, when you were late,
-we were watching that.
-Oh, great.
Yes, so I'm saying,
it's a government initiative, trying to…
onboard all kinds of small businesses
on a platform…
And make all kinds of small businesses,
be it kirana, etc. basically come online,
and really unbundle
the entire value chain. Right?
I really believe the vision
and the mission there is quite powerful.
Because we still don't find
any panwadi, etc.
selling products online around you.
India has about 60 million
small businesses…
About a million, million and a half
only sell anything online.
So, now you can say eventually
how many will do or don't do,
I don't know.
You look at South East Asia e-commerce,
they started four years after India,
they got 15 million people
who sell online just in Indonesia.
India is still million and a half.
So, I think there's a problem
to be solved.
I hope that ONDC is the answer.
We have integrated with them,
hopefully that will solve,
but still very early.
In very simple words,
like, if you were to dumb it down for me…
If I am a seller who makes soaps, okay?
[speaking in Hindi]
-[Vidit] Correct.
-After ONDC, how does my life change?
So I think it's more interop…
So, basically, they say that
it's like the UPI of e-commerce.
It is supposed to be that. Which is…
You can upload your catalogue on any app,
and it will start to appear
on all other apps
which are integrated with ONDC.
So that's how it is supposed to be.
It's an interoperable e-commerce platform.
[speaking in Hindi]
Tomorrow, when I put my soap on Meesho,
will it automatically show up on Flipkart?
It should. If everything is ONDC.
-That's the goal.
-[Sujeet] It's integrated.
I have a very…
I want to ask you a question.
So, you all believe that…
[speaking in Hindi]
No, I don't know…
[in Hindi] Will the rate of consumption
increase?
You see, supply follows demand.
-The problem is this.
-I don't agree.
Supply follows demand.
[conversing in Hindi]
I will give you an example,
because this happens so gradually.
[Kishore speaking in Hindi]
But this happens so gradually,
people don't understand.
But if you look at pandemic,
where things happened very quickly, right?
So, suddenly, for a year,
nothing was selling offline.
And you meet any small business in India,
people were like, "Oh, shit.
"People used to come to me
and say sell online.
"I did not do. Now I can't put food
on the table in my household."
So, I'm saying, at that point in time,
every small business in India
realized they want to be online.
And to some extent,
by the way, informally,
a lot of them are online
because they sell on WhatsApp.
So you can say that panwadi also sends you
whatever you want on WhatsApp, right?
Are they selling online?
Maybe yes. But still…
like, quite hidden,
in some unstructured platforms,
they haven't come online.
And they can't get access
to a lot of demand
that people who are selling online
are getting to.
Like he was saying,
it is a digitization exercise.
[Vidit in Hindi] Yes, so that will happen.
[in English] But someone has to enable…
And somehow, they've been lots
of roadblocks that haven't enabled it.
Let's assume that it happens successfully.
[speaking in Hindi]
Today, suddenly, the product shows up
in Amazon, Flipkart, everywhere.
How does the use case
for an e-commerce platform change then?
Because then Amazon has less control over
what all products are listed under them.
Yeah, and that's the… [sighs]
that's the unique thing about it…
A lot of those design principles
haven't been thought of yet.
Because everyone has
a different supply chain.
If everything is available everywhere,
then who stands for what?
What does a brand stand for?
Because everyone uses
the same supply chain
so the product will come in
the same amount of time.
If everything comes
in the same amount of time,
then how will Amazon build
a different identity than anyone else?
The problem is no one
has thought about it,
even people who have designed it.
It's still very early.
I don't know what will happen there.
That's a fair explanation.
-[Sujeet] It's an idea.
-Because if everyone is the same,
then how do people
stand for different things
and why will you have multiple apps?
-Then who will really do it?
-[Sujeet] Who is going to benefit?
Which is a big problem,
payments are same on every app.
It's not that if I do payment…
with one app to the other,
that they stand for different things.
Like, payments is commoditized…
one simple thing. Products are not.
Two different stores you go to
cannot be exactly the same.
They stand for different things,
what they merchandise,
what they talk about,
what their marketing line is,
they are very different things.
So, if you try to commoditize
storefronts or market places,
it's never been done before.
So, how does it really come to life?
No one knows.
So I don't have a good answer
to this question.
Even the government is not very clear,
they are trying,
they are bringing the people together…
But let's see,
everybody has their own hidden agenda.
In India, investing into e-commerce,
there aren't many opportunities.
Flipkart is owned by Walmart,
they are not listed here.
One can argue you can buy
Walmart shares in America,
but that would diversify you too much.
The only option I would
say arguably is Nykaa…
[speaking in Hindi]
…in the listed space.
What do you guys think of Nykaa,
the business model of Nykaa?
And what do you think
will happen to Nykaa going forward?
I know they are your competition, but…
No, we're not, by the way.
I believe it's a very different business.
Like, we are a platform, they're a brand.
-So, I think it's…
-Are they a brand? Because they're not…
They're distributing third-party products.
[Kishore] Yeah,
but still they are a brand.
[Sujeet] They're a brand.
Well, look at Amazon as a brand.
It's a brand, Flipkart is a brand.
Nykaa is a brand, Meesho is also a brand.
They've worked on building the brand, so…
Yeah, but my…
Still, my thing was, like, they…
A lot of what they do offline-online,
the kind of products they sell,
a lot of products are exclusive.
So, basically…
-But vast majority of what they sell…
-[Vidit] Yes.
…let's say they do 4,000 crores
of business a year.
Let's say 5% margin kind of business.
Operating margin or net margin, 5%.
But… most of what they sell
is third-party products
that they are distributing.
So, that's why I think my understanding
of the business could also be limited,
but from what I've seen,
how they've approached it,
a lot of that business has been built by
getting supply
that you won't get everywhere, right?
So they've been much more focused
on going very deep
into that particular category
and making it happen.
If, by the way,
you can get the same supply
that you have in Nykaa,
you can get on Amazon
and they'll ship, like, the next day,
why won't you buy from there?
And it should not happen, right?
-But it does not.
-If somebody is buying,
are they betting into the story of India 2
growing significantly
and India 1 growing as well?
But I… But a woman child is getting, uh,
getting into beauty even in India 2.
In a very significant way.
So, there is some budget of the family
going into beauty.
Beauty, as a category,
is also growing significantly.
Very fast.
That's actually
a very interesting question.
But India 2, by the way, in terms
of beauty, ends up being lipstick,
nail polish, or foundation.
But that's also a three category…
Three SKUs, not small.
-Yeah, but it's very…
-…started three, four, five….
How does one evaluate
something like Nykaa?
How does one benchmark?
I'm asking because you both
are in e-commerce.
You've had Flipkart, Udaan.
You have Meesho.
If I'm an investor trying to figure out
I should invest in the company…
Like, I think Falguni
is an exceptional entrepreneur.
I know her, and I think
if anybody can pull it off,
it's possibly or likely her.
She's had an exceptional past
and great management
and all of those things.
But the broader question is…
how big is the e-commerce pie in India,
and are we betting
based on the valuations
of whatever I mentioned?
Are we betting that India 1 and 2
will grow to X%
in the next five years or ten years?
Is that the bet we are making?
Yeah, I've… I don't know the answer
to that question,
and I won't even attempt,
but what I know is I don't think
that company is a good representation
of India e-commerce,
because it's very narrow in a category
and very narrow
in terms of the customer base they serve.
Their average order value, if I remember,
was some 1,500… 1,800…
2,000 something like that.
-[Kishore] But it's not less.
-It's quite high, it's very high.
So, my point is, it's super high.
So, the segment exposure
and category exposure
cannot be representational
of the e-commerce market.
That's what I believe.
-Okay, let's talk about Meesho.
-Yes.
Let's make it more interesting.
What is your valuation today?
Valuation today? Our valuation?
This was the last round,
about five billion.
Okay. And, uh, give us some metrics,
like, some numbers
and whatever is publicly available.
Yeah, so I'm saying
we have about 14 crore people
who buy from us every year,
about a million small businesses.
Um, in the last one year,
we did about one billion orders,
which is, what? 100 crores?
So, about 100 crore orders
in the last 12 months.
Those are insane numbers, by the way.
Right? 14 crore people buying.
Yeah, and, by the way, we sell across.
So, horizontal platform,
people come and sell anything they want.
So, about half is apparel,
and half is non-apparel,
and that includes kids, beauty,
personal care, your electronics.
So, what is the GMV…
Like, the gross sales that happen on…
Yeah, so about, like,
last 2020 calendar year,
was about four and a half,
quarter to five billion.
Um…
So… which is last year.
And what is the margin on the top-level?
Out of this 5 billion you sell,
on average,
how much margin do you have?
[speaking in Hindi]
Why do you want to open my PnL
in front of me here right now?
Right, right.
[speaking in Hindi]
Dealing with that kind of customers.
[Nikhil speaking in Hindi]
320. I'm saying
that's the problem we have to solve.
[Kishore] That's the biggest problem.
-[Vidit] Correct.
-What would that be for Flipkart?
[Vidit] Would be much higher.
Again, 1,200, 1,300. Maybe higher.
Because there,
the electronics, mobile phones
takes the average order value quite high.
Plus, they have Myntra,
theirs will be very high.
We didn't answer the Nykaa thing.
What are the final thoughts
on a company like Nykaa?
Because I don't have
another listed player in mind.
What's your interest?
No, I said… I said
I don't know about the company,
but I don't believe
it represents India e-commerce.
That's okay. I believe it's picked up
the right category at the right time.
And secondly, they build their own
strength of the content to commerce.
I think it was a very interesting way
they built it.
There are negatives that, uh…
They have attracted attention
and too many players are coming in.
Uh…
They need to build their own brand
in the ecosystem,
which they might be doing.
They went into too many things now.
They went into B2B.
But I was surprised that even, uh, the…
I never thought beauty and fashion
as a adjacency will work as much,
-but Nykaa is not doing bad on fashion.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
They just launched that Alo Yoga, no?
They are distributors, right?
Killing it, that brand, abroad.
It's doing reasonably quite okay.
If they are able to build adjacencies,
it becomes an interesting story.
[Sujeet] I think one thing
you have to give it to… Nykaa,
they have built the business
with the discipline, unit economy,
so that they have gone to market
and definitely the market believes
in their, uh, in their IPO.
Like, everybody…
They're still holding up very high
given the comparison to their revenue.
I think only problem is
how to expand their time.
Is it the similar…
Because the category they are in,
it's already niche.
And build… As a commerce…
So, it's very hard to say that
it's a full-fledged e-commerce.
I will not call it as
a platformized e-commerce,
it's a vertical.
Definitely, they are building
other verticals also, adjacency, but…
it's a difficult journey. Let's see.
If I had to, like, figure out…
Let's say I have 100 rupees to invest,
and I want to invest in e-commerce…
[speaking in Hindi]
Because even now more and more of
what's gonna come in the public markets,
what people say is, there is Nykaa…
Now FirstCry is someone
who's saying, "We'll go public."
Will be very similar…
Like, one sector, certain…
You think that'll be the key curation
with ONDC, with many platforms?
No, no, I think that's why
what's happening is,
these value… value-adding brands
are going online, platforms will come.
And I don't know, both the other platform,
Walmart and Amazon,
they will list in India? Unlikely.
So, hopefully, we will do it
at some point in time.
[Nikhil] Right.
But I feel like that
the e-commerce exposure
that you keep referring to,
unless you take parts
of all of them and say,
"We did everything,
at least we'll have some exposure."
Otherwise, all of them are very…
There is Jio. They have a big aspiration.
[speaking in Hindi]
Should I be in e-commerce,
or is the market too saturated?
[Sujeet] As a career?
-[Vidit] To start a platform?
-As a career.
[Vidit] To start a platform
or to be a merchant?
…e-commerce. There's no other option
but to be a part of it.
Yeah, I mean, being part of e-commerce…
The only way is
not to be a platform, right?
Like, now, all the D2C brands
are part of e-commerce.
[Kishore] Yeah, they're all e-commerce.
And everyone… So the beautiful thing
that has happened
because of the e-commerce platforms is
now personalization and localization
that can happen…
Like, it was not possible.
So now, people are, like,
finding very niche
and basically serving them.
So you only get discovered
with a particular search term,
and people buy you again and again.
I'm saying lots of these micro D2C brands
are possible. So, I'm saying…
being part of e-commerce,
everything that you do around
selling digital products
is being part of e-commerce,
and I believe it will only accelerate,
because there's no other way anymore.
[speaking in Hindi]
Like, especially us three
living in Bangalore,
we're all from this…
We're all products of a startup bubble
which started last decade.
And I think to be fair, like,
we were talking about knowing your flaws.
I think we're cognizant to the fact
that we are by-products
of a startup bubble.
What happens to e-commerce
once the deep discounting in a way
or the marketing money
which was funded by
cheap cost of capital abroad goes away?
Like, how do things change?
Let's say there is no funding available
for growth for Indian e-commerce companies
in the next three years,
and they have to survive
with the money they have left.
How does each one change?
In my mind,
it's a very hypothetical question.
But I think… Look…
when you are building a business,
you know that this much money you need.
Say plus-minus, we can say that.
I think only you can say that,
"Hey, growth is the right metrics."
If you are growing…
then investing money even though,
let's say profitability comes after,
let's say, four or five years…
-I don't agree, I don't…
-Hear me out, hear me out. I understand.
But if you are with those
unit… in your boundaries,
you are capturing the market share
and growing.
I think I am that kind of student
where I'll support that.
But burning money and hurting the company…
like you burn money, you get the GMV.
-See, but see…
-But your…
unit economics not holding,
you should not do that.
-But you're making…
-You'll kill your company.
But you are also making an assumption
that this tap is open
where you continue
to get money to burn money.
By the way, unit economics, I also feel…
Like why unit economics, why not EBITDA?
I'll tell you why.
And it's a great thing. It's a…
Of course, EBITDA.
Everybody is aiming for EBITDA.
I am not contesting that.
So, I am saying that
if that has to be positive,
ideally, you should make money.
In some cohorts, let's say…
Growth is an important matrix also.
That's the problem.
I've been a growth story in a way,
and I don't think that holds true.
Because I'll tell you why,
I'll explain to you why.
After a point, the growth
comes at an extraordinary cost.
And that's what I am saying,
that we should not do that
if it is coming at an extraordinary cost.
[speaking in Hindi]
[In English] You'll be so lost
in that journey of growth
that you want it at any cost.
You want to be the leader
in the category and the space
-which you belong to.
-I think that is so true.
-Many, many…
-By the way, I believe…
So, my opinion is
there are multiple things.
They are one stage of the business,
especially in e-commerce.
You need to cross
a critical mass of scale.
Yeah, that growth is required.
And unless you get there,
if you try to become profitable too soon,
you get into a negative spiral.
It's okay, both ways.
Because people take the same lesson,
apply across stages.
-I don't believe it works.
-So, I… I have a…
So you have to get to critical mass,
but after that, I believe
you need to be profitable.
-Yeah, of course, I'm not…
-Right?
So, our goal is, I think
by the end of this year,
we'll become profitable because…
[in Hindi] If not now, then when?
[in English] Right?
You have five billion in sales,
now you gotta make sure that
business becomes profitable.
But if I tried to do it four years ago,
I would made a… like a big blunder.
[Kishore] Fair enough.
So, Nikhil, I have a very interesting take
on technology.
So I always believe that technology does
three or four things,
which are different from the traditional
or the old economy.
One, it reduces space, reduces time,
and create social interactions.
And like in fashion business,
on digital commerce,
you can do ten stock turns.
Wherein in physical, you can't do
more than three, three and a half.
You can work with less number of people.
You can institutionalize
a lot of processes.
And then, social interaction
is something, digitally,
you can build a lot and acquire customers
at a much lower cost than what physical…
Because in physical, the old economy
used to advertise for everybody.
Here you can target, you can do a lot.
So, it has a lot of advantages.
Anybody who'll take advantages
of all these things
is going to be the winner.
And constraint can create companies.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course, I…
I… from…
And lastly, I also believe that
unless you are getting into…
Unless you don't have X amount
of value addition done,
you are not in a business only.
[Sujeet] Yes, yes.
But in e-commerce also, I can see a…
A scaled business,
these are scaled businesses.
And that's why I was not able
to answer on the Nykaa,
because I was not imagining
how or where their scale will come from.
Because you know, supply chain,
the same thing goes on,
because those are the principles
where more and more scale,
you can reduce the cost.
I think building those capabilities
where sourcing is a big thing
in e-commerce.
Let's say, and…
But retailing is sourcing.
-No, but sourcing has…
-Sourcing as in…
If I'll crack sourcing…
And definitely, I'm not…
I'm talking about the going and having…
doing that math on sourcing
rather than buying,
keeping that inventory,
and then distributing
and saving the money,
I think that's a lose match.
And it will only come on certain scales
when you are involved
on the production side of it.
Interesting. Any final words for anybody
looking to get involved in e-commerce?
Final thoughts.
[speaking in Hindi]
So, when I look at D2C brands, it was…
Uh, D2C brands are something like,
uh, you're living in a neighborhood
and you opened a shop.
And you start from there,
and from there you grow
and open to a much…
It allows you to open
to a much, much larger audience.
So, that's the way forward.
You can't now go and open a shop
below your building.
It's great to get into digital commerce,
and if you're lucky and if you do well,
if you're passionate, I think
it's a great business to be in.
No, I believe there's no other way, right?
So, I believe, as I think
we started in the beginning,
the definition between e-commerce,
commerce, offline commerce
are getting blurred more and more.
So, if you wanna do anything in commerce,
you have to basically figure out
how to make e-commerce work.
This holds true for anyone
who's starting a business today.
So, I think if you wanna create value,
I think you will become a part of this.
So, I think instead of asking,
"Should I become part of this,"
question is, "What do I need to do
to really become successful at this?"
And I believe that will happen.
Like social, figuring out influencers,
figuring out everything else,
figuring out marketplaces.
I think, on contrary,
this has integrated them,
because you get the same product,
same thing.
Earlier, when people define that
when offline,
you'll get something in Delhi or in Mumbai
or in big cities,
you'll not get in tier-2 or in…
Now, e-commerce made it…
every product is available everywhere.
We all agreed that's become
a very relevant part, right?
-Figuring out…
-Very big.
-Yeah.
-…to sell anything.
Hmm.
So, I think if you are doing commerce,
online will happen for sure.
Some people will do hybrid as well,
but I'm also seeing…
So, for example, 40% of sellers on Meesho
are online-only sellers.
They don't sell anywhere else.
So, they have basic…
They became entrepreneurs
for the first time,
because they figured out,
"Hey, I can go on this platform.
"I figure… I know how to merchandize well,
how to price well,
"how to figure out what trends work
on this marketplace and so on."
So, people are creating
businesses… basically.
So, I think that will happen
more and more.
Lots of online native sellers will come,
and they would have never known
what does it mean to sell offline.
I believe that… I can only…
uh, finding the similarity
when we have started, let's say 2007-2008.
The Internet at that time
was not even the main channel.
Only eight million people having
the broadband and the Internet access
at that time, 2008.
Uh, but I think taking
that point to the Internet
is the most powerful thing,
and people have evolved.
Like social, I believe the 20-year guy
will understand much better than me,
and because when we have
to learn, talk to him.
And finally, commerce,
definitely doesn't matter which channel,
but it is going to happen
and adopted in a most evolving way.
I believe the social influencers
and all are a great channel.
How to get use of that in…
Look, I'm not talking about supply chain,
I'm not talking about inventory.
Those are given.
If you wanted to transport
one physical goods,
those will come into play.
And, somewhere, it's solving or solved,
it's evolving in its own pace.
But getting into the consumer side of it,
where the consumers' minds are,
be part of that and see how…
one can be… uh,
doing those commerce transactions,
uh, how to influence.
I think that's the advice.
And new channels already are emerging.
[Nikhil] Super.
Thank you, everyone, for watching.
[Vidit] Thank you.
Thank you, Kishore, Vidit and Sujeet.
-Thanks… for hosting us.
-[Nikhil] Cheers, everyone.
Hi, I'm Nikhil.
Uh, thank you for watching the podcast.
Let us know
who your favorite guest has been,
and who you'd like to watch next.
Thank you.
Subtitled by Clockwork Captions